#SOC302 Multivariate Replication Package Final
## **Instructions**
To access and utilize the script, open "sanchez-science.good.R", which contains the script for my findings.  To access the dataset, please utilize the GSS Data Explorer (https://gssdataexplorer.norc.org/variables/vfilter) exclusively using variables and data from 2022.

## **Data**
In 2022, 4149 respondents were surveyed using a full probablity sampling method to ensure the survey remains nationally representative.  This involved a multi-state area probablity sample, where households were randomly selected, and eligble adults in those households were chosen to randomly minimize selection bias and ensure that all individuals had an equal chance of being included in the study. 
In my research, there are 409 observations across 6 variables.  This discrepancy from the original dataset can be explained by respondents who may have selected "Don't know" or "Choose not to answer."  Also, reliance on self-reported data may introduce biases, where respondents may answer in a manner they believe is more acceptable rather than providing their true opinion.

## **Operationalization**
This study investigates the complex relationship between religious beliefs, sociodemographic background, trust in healthcare, and their collective influence on public trust in science.  Utilizaing data from the 2022 General Social Survey (GSS), as well as a correlation matrix and logistic regression models, the research reveals the individuals who frequently attend religious services exhibit lower levels of trust in science, aligning with existing literature that highlights the conflict between religious doctrine and scientific epistemologies.
I operationalized the GSS variable "scientgo" which asked, "Scientific researchers are dedicated people who work for the good of humanity. Do you strongly agree, agree, disagree, or strongly disagree?" Respondents were given the choice to “Strongly Agree”, “Agree”, “Disagree”, or “Strongly Disagree.”  However, I recoded these choices so that “Strongly Agree” and “Agree” were grouped together into just “Agree.”  The same was done with “Strongly Disagree” and “Disagree” being grouped together into simply “Disagree”.
My first concept is religious beliefs, which includes the independent variable “attend” which measures “How often do you attend religious services?”  The options respondents were given a choice to choose from were, “Never”, “Less than once a year”, “About once or twice a year”, “Several times a year”, “About once a month”, “2-3 times a month”, “Nearly every week”, “Every week”, and “Several times a week”.  However, to simplify these choices, I recoded “Never”, “Less than once a year”, and “About once or twice a year” under a new variable, “Never”.  The same was done with another new variable, “Sometimes”, that included “Several times a year”, “About once a month”, and “2-3 times a month”.  I grouped together “Nearly every week”, “Every week”, and “Several times a week” into a category under “Always”.
My second concept is sociodemographic background, which includes the variables “degree” which measures “Respondent’s degree” and “partyid” which measures “Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, Democrat, Independent, or what?” “Degree” included the choices of “Less than high school”, “High school”, “Associate/junior college”, “Bachelor’s”, and “Graduate”.  The only recoding done was to combine both “Bachelor’s” and “Graduate” into a category called “College Graduate”.  Referring to “partyid”, respondents were given a choice of “Strong democrat”, “Not very strong democrat”, “Independent, close to democrat”, “Independent (neither, no response)”, “Independent, close to republican”, “Not very strong republican”, “Strong republican”, and “Other”.  I recoded “Strong democrat”, “Not very strong democrat”, and “Independent, close to democrat”, under a category of simply “Democrat”.  The same could be said about “Strong republican”, “Not very strong republican”, and “Independent, close to republican”, under just “Republican”.  “Independent (neither, no response)” and “Other” were given their own respective categories.
My third and final concept is trust in healthcare, which includes the variables “consci”, which measures, “I am going to name some institutions in this country. As far as the people running these institutions are concerned, would you say you have a great deal of confidence, only some confidence, or hardly any confidence at all in them?” and “doctrst” which measures “How much do you agree or disagree with the following statements about doctors in general in the United States? All things considered, doctors can be trusted.”  Regarding “consci” respondents were given the options “A great deal”, “Only some”, and “Hardly any”.  There was no recoding done as the variables fit into my framework.  Referring to “doctrst”, those choices given to respondents were, “Strongly Agree”, “Agree”, “Disagree”, or “Strongly Disagree.”  Similar to “scientgo”, “doctrst” was recoded so that “Strongly Agree” and “Agree” were paired under “Agree.” and same was done with “Strongly Disagree” and “Disagree” being grouped together into simply “Disagree”.
